Add docs for JS (#39)
SAP/ai-sdk: docs-js/connecting-to-ai-core.mdx

---
id: connecting-to-ai-core
title: Connecting to AI Core
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
description: How to connect to AI Core in BTP using a wide variety of credentials.
keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - ai
  - btp
  - ai core
---

The SAP Cloud SDK for AI uses the [`Destination` concept of the SAP Cloud SDK](https://sap.github.io/cloud-sdk/docs/js/features/connectivity/destinations) to connect to AI Core.
This allows for a seamless integration in SAP BTP and offers a wide variety of managing the credentials for the connection.

## Using a Service Binding

By default, the SAP Cloud SDK for AI will look for an `aicore` service binding in the environment of the application.

When running on SAP BTP, [create an instance of the AI Core service](https://help.sap.com/docs/sap-ai-core/sap-ai-core-service-guide/create-service-instance) and bind it to your application.

- In Cloud Foundry, it's accessed from the `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variable.
- In Kubernetes / Kyma environments, you have to mount the service binding as a secret instead, for more information refer to [this documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sap/xsenv#usage-in-kubernetes).

> If no service binding could be found (and no other destination has been given), the SAP Cloud SDK for AI will throw an exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no service binding is found and no destination is explicitly provided, the SDK throws an exception.
```

> If no service binding could be found (and no other destination has been given), the SAP Cloud SDK for AI will throw an exception.

Reviewer 2: [pp] Also add what the exception text looks like.

> To run your code outside SAP BTP (e.g. locally), you will have to provide the credentials manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the code outside of SAP BTP (e.g., locally), provide the necessary credentials manually.
```

### Providing a Service Binding Locally

> For local development, you can provide the service credentials locally in various ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For local development, you can provide the service credentials locally in several ways.
```

#### Using CAP Hybrid Testing

When developing a [CAP application](https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/), you can use the [hybrid testing](https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/advanced/hybrid-testing#services-on-cloud-foundry) approach.
The following command will bind the credential of your AI Core service instance:

```bash
cds bind -2 AICORE_INSTANCE_NAME
```

> Then run your application with the hybrid profile:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then run the application with the hybrid profile:
```

```bash
cds-tsx watch --profile hybrid
```

#### Using the `AICORE_SERVICE_KEY` Environment Variable

You can provide the service credential in the `AICORE_SERVICE_KEY` environment variable.
SAP Cloud SDK for AI will read it through `process.env.AICORE_SERVICE_KEY` variable.

[Create a service key](https://help.sap.com/docs/sap-ai-core/sap-ai-core-service-guide/create-service-key) for your AI Core service instance and copy the resulting JSON object.

> Then set the environment variable `AICORE_SERVICE_KEY`, e.g., by creating a `.env` file with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, set the environment variable `AICORE_SERVICE_KEY`, e.g., by creating a `.env` file with the following content:
```

```txt
AICORE_SERVICE_KEY='{
    "clientid": "...",
    ...
}'
```

Load the `.env` file by using [dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) or running `node --env-file=.env ...`.

> For NextJS, please see [this documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/configuring/environment-variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For NextJS, see [this documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/configuring/environment-variables).
```
